# classification_fish
Use the concept of Classification to classify 9 different seafood type (Fish) collected from a Supermarket in Turkey. This is easy for humans, but your computer will find it a lot more difficult.


Convolutional Neural Networks are widely used for image recognition. They break down to a series of layers that perform operations on the data to decompose it to its most basic element. When training the model, labeled data is fed in and features are found. Once the data has been broken down and the model has been trained, the model will identify any test image by comparing the broken down information and labeling it based on its highest probability of being correct. For example when we train our model with nine different classes of fish, each fish will be broken down to a value (trout may be broken down to [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1] for example).  A test image passed into the model may be processes with a confidence level relating to each possible class ([0.1, 0, 0.2, 0.15, 0.05, 0, 0, 0, 0.5]) it would then say that the test image is whatever class corresponds with the highest confidence level (in this case trout has 50% confidence level so the model would say the image is of a trout).
To create my Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) I used a few resources to build the general model. I initially used three layers of 2D convolution, a batch size of 100, and 1 epoch. The image data set provided consisted of 9000 images divided equally between nine different classes of fish. This meant 1000 images for each fish class. Batch size is the amount of images fed into the model at a time. Larger batch sizes can decrease training time when processing data but if the batch size is too large  it can lead to the model overfitting to the data. The epoch is the number of times the model is trained over the data. To improve the efficiency when running the program multiple times the importing of data was made into a class that then saved the processes data into a file called training_data.npy.  The CNN was made into a separate class that can then use the pre-processes training data file. This means the data only needed to be imported and processed once then the CNN parameters could be tuned to increase accuracy without needing to process the dataset again. If any changes to the data set were made then it could be processed again as needed. A package called tqdm was used to visualize the progress of the processing steps for the model. The model returned an average of 17.5 percent accuracy when dividing my data into 80 percent being used for training and 20 percent used for testing. I next increased the number of epochs to 4, improving the average accuracy to 39.30 percent. Lastly I increased the number of epochs to 8 and again increased the accuracy, on average, to 55.35 percent. This implies that one way to increase the model’s accuracy is to increase the number of epochs. Figure 1 shows the accuracy versus number of epochs relationship. When looking at the loss, number of epoch relationships Figure 2 clearly shows that when increasing the number of epochs we can reduce the model loss.



References:

(Xperience.AI), Maxim Kuklin. “Optical Flow in OpenCV (C++/Python): Learn OpenCV.” Learn OpenCV | OpenCV, PyTorch, Keras, Tensorflow Examples and Tutorials, 3 May 2021, learnopencv.com/optical-flow-in-opencv/#what-is-optical-flow.

Ulucan, Oguzhan, et al. “A Large-Scale Dataset for Fish Segmentation and Classification.” 2020 Innovations in Intelligent Systems and Applications Conference (ASYU), 2020, pp. 1–5., doi:10.1109/asyu50717.2020.9259867.

sentdex. “Training Convnet - Deep Learning and Neural Networks with Python and Pytorch P.6.” YouTube, YouTube, 7 Oct. 2019, www.youtube.com/watch?v=1gQR24B3ISE.
